Update Software Install instructions for AWS (#1784)
astronomer/docs: software/self-signed-certificate.md

---
title: 'Generate self-signed TLS certificates'

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: 'Generate self-signed TLS certificates'

sidebar_label: 'Generate self-signed certificates'
id: self-signed-certificate
description: Generate a self-signed certificate to use with Astronomer Software.
---

> This guide describes the steps to generate a self-signed certificate to use with Astronomer Software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide describes the steps to generate a self-signed certificate to use with Astronomer Software. You might want to complete this setup as part of [installing Astronomer Software on AWS](install-aws.md).
```

> Self-signed certificates are best used in privately hosted internal applications and in development and testing environments.
> Avoid using self-signed certificates in situations where trust and identity of the certificate issuer are important.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Self-signed certificates are ideal for privately hosted internal applications, as well as in development and testing environments. Avoid using self-signed certificates in installations where the trust and identity of the certificate issuer are important.
```

## Prerequisites

- [openssl](https://www.openssl.org/). You can install it through [Homebrew](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/openssl@1.1) on MacOs, [Windows installer](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/openssl.htm) on Windows, or [`apt-get`](https://www.misterpki.com/how-to-install-openssl-on-ubuntu/) on Linux.

## Setup

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Run the following set of commands, and answer the questions when prompted.

1. Run the following command to create a private key:

    ```bash
    openssl genrsa -aes256 -passout pass:gsahdg -out server.pass.key 4096
    ```

2. Run the following command to make a password-less second key based on the first key you created:

    ```bash
    openssl rsa -passin pass:gsahdg -in server.pass.key -out server.key
    ```

3. Run the following command to delete the first key: 

    ```bash
    rm server.pass.key
    ```

4. Run the following command to create a certificate signing request using the password-less private key.
   You will be asked to provide information to sign the certificate. 
   Make sure the `Common Name` matches your DNS record, for example `*.astro.example.com`. 

    ```bash
    openssl req -new -key server.key -out server.csr
    ```

    When openssl asks for a challenge password, press Enter to leave the password empty. Kubernetes does not natively support challenge passwords for certificates stored as Secrets.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

5. Run the following command to create the certificate from your private key and signing request:

    ```bash
    openssl x509 -req -sha256 -days 365 -in server.csr \
    -signkey server.key -out server.crt \
    -extfile <(printf "subjectAltName=DNS:*.astro.<your-basedomain>,DNS:astro.<your-basedomain>")

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```

```

>     Make sure the Subject Alternative Name matches the required domain and subdomains.
>     To generate a wildcard certificate, both the base domain and the wildcard domain must be included.
>     To generate a limited multi-domain certificate, add individual SAN entries for each subdomain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Make sure the Subject Alternative Name matches the required domain and subdomains. To generate a wildcard certificate, both the base domain and the wildcard domain must be included. To generate a limited multi-domain certificate, add individual SAN entries for each subdomain.
```

The certificate file `server.crt` and private key file `server.key` can now be used in your Astronomer Software installation.

## Inspect your self-signed certificate

Run the following command to inspect your self-signed certificate:

```bash

> openssl x509 -in  server.crt -text -noout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
openssl x509 -in server.crt -text -noout

```

---
title: 'Generate Self-signed TLS certificates'
sidebar_label: 'Generate self-signed certificates'
id: self-signed-certificate
description: Generate a self-signed certificate to use with Astronomer Software.
---

This guide describes the steps to generate a self-signed certificate to use with Astronomer Software.

## Prerequisites

The openssl library is required to generate your own certificate. Run the following command in your local environment to see if you already have openssl installed installed.

```bash
which openssl
```

If the which command does not return a path, you will need to install openssl yourself:

| Operating System | Install instructions                                                      |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mac OS X         | brew install openssl                                                      |
| Windows          | [Windows installer](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/openssl.htm) |

> | Ubuntu Linux     | apt-get install openssl                                                   |

Author: Weirdly enough, the OpenSSL website does not provide installation instructions. That's why I added them here. We could reference a trusted third-party website instead.

# Generate a self-signed certificate

Run the following commands to generate a self-signed certificate:
To create a self-signed SSL certificate, we need a private key and certificating signing request. 

> ⚠️When the `openssl req` command asks for a "challenge password", press return to leave the password empty. Kubernetes does not natively support challenge passwords for certificates stored as Secrets.

> Run the following set of commands, and answer the questions when prompted. The `Common Name` must match the DNS chosen for the site at Step 1 above, such as (for example) `*.astro.example.com`. 

Reviewer: Which command does this apply to?

> Create a private key. By default, a password must be provided. 
> ```bash
> openssl genrsa -aes256 -passout pass:gsahdg -out server.pass.key 4096
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command to create a private key:

    ```bash
    openssl genrsa -aes256 -passout pass:gsahdg -out server.pass.key 4096
    ```
```

Is `pass:gsahdg` the password? Do we have to tell users to provide a password if they can just use an arbitrary string?

> Create a password-less second key based on the first key.
> ```bash
> openssl rsa -passin pass:gsahdg -in server.pass.key -out server.key
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the following command to make a password-less second key based on the first key you created:

    ```bash
    openssl rsa -passin pass:gsahdg -in server.pass.key -out server.key
    ```
```

> Remove the first key file. 
> ```bash
> rm server.pass.key
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the following command to delete the first key file: 

    ```bash
    rm server.pass.key
    ```
```

> Create a Certificate Signing Request using the password-less private key.
> ```bash
> openssl req -new -key server.key -out server.csr
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the following command to create a certificate signing request using the password-less private key.

    ```bash
    openssl req -new -key server.key -out server.csr
    ```
```

The self-signed SSL certificate is generated from the private key (`server.key`) and certificate signing request (`server.csr`) files.

> Make sure to add the appropriate `Subject Alternative Name` (SAN) in the extfile. 
> SAN records must match the DNS entries for the base domain chosen at Step 1 above, such as (for example) `*.astro.example.com`.
> 
> ```bash
> openssl x509 -req -sha256 -days 365 -in server.csr \
> -signkey server.key -out server.crt \
> -extfile <(printf "subjectAltName=DNS:*.astro.example.com,DNS:astro.example.com")
> ```
> 
> The certificate file `server.crt` and private key file `server.key` can now be used to configure Astronomer Software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run the following command to sign the certificate you created:

    ```bash
    openssl x509 -req -sha256 -days 365 -in server.csr \
    -signkey server.key -out server.crt \
    -extfile <(printf "subjectAltName=DNS:*.astro.<your-basedomain>,DNS:astro.<your-basedomain>")
    ```

    The certificate file `server.crt` and private key file `server.key` can now be used in your Astronomer Software installation.
```

> # Inspect the generated self-signed certificate
> Once the certificate is created, you can inspect its content with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Inspect your self-signed certificate

Run the following command to inspect your self-signed certificate:
```

```bash
openssl x509 -in  server.crt -text -noout
```

> Make sure that the `X509v3 Subject Alternative Name` section of this report includes your Astronomer domain (`my-domain.com`) as well as the wildcard domain (`*.my-domain.com`).
> If you are not using a wildcard domain, add SAN entries for all related Astronomer subdomains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Confirm that the `X509v3 Subject Alternative Name` section of the certificate includes your Astronomer base domain (`<your-basedomain>`) as well as the wildcard domain (`*.<your-basedomain>`).

If you're not using a wildcard domain, add SAN entries for all related Astronomer subdomains to the `X509v3 Subject Alternative Name` section.
```

Run the following command to inspect your self-signed certificate:

```bash
openssl x509 -in server.crt -text -noout

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
